Participants: Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Sophie Servan (DESY), Fabio Dal Antonia (XFEL),  Ornella De Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Erwan Le Gall (ILL), Jamie Hall (ILL), Stuart Caunt (ILL), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI)
1.	Deliverables & Milestones
o	MS2.3 - Implementation of PaNOSC DP framework should be reported achieved. The DP framework has been implemented for all the partners except ELI for whom it is work in progress.
o	D6.2 - Compute cloud report is ready and it will be submitted to the reviewers today. Teodor is awaiting some inputs from ILL. 
o	D6.3 - AAI report is also ready and it has been submitted to Erwan. Erwan will share the draft with Jamie. 
o	MS6.1 Implementation of AAI integration text will be submitted this week.
o	MS6.3 Second release of PaNOSC services: ESRF have 3 services, ILL has 1 service registered on the EOSC portal. Brief text will be submitted this week. Jean-Francois will provide service branding text guidelines.  
o	D7.2 - Photon and Neutron EOSC metrics requires substantial revision following Rudolf’s comment. Rudolf could perhaps provide more clarification on his comment. It should be ready within a week or max 2. 
o	MS8.5 e-learning virtual facilities should be achieved in couple of weeks. 
o	WP3 and WP5 have some deliverables due in the next months. Jordi will check exact description on the portal and add it on the agenda.  
2.	Periodic Report update
Jordi will share draft of the technical report on google doc. The periodic report concerns period of 1 June 2020 - 30 November 2021. There should not be any further review as long as we submit good quality deliverables and reports on time. 
3.	PaNOSC project brief
All the cluster projects have been asked to submit the project brief to the EC. We are expected to provide 5-page feedback on the given topics. The deadline is 10 January 2022. We can review the document on Monday 10th January at 8am. Jordi will share the PaNOSC google drive link with all the WP leads as well as other interested members. 
4.	WP8 review date
The review should take place in 23rd February 2022. 
5.	Events

•	EOSC responsible at the French research and higher education ministry reached out to PaNOSC to participate in an EOSC event. Andy encouraged project partners to get in touch with equivalent officials in their respective countries for better visibility. 
•	ESFRI -EOSC event will have PaNOSC representation. 
•	ESOF event will take place in the Netherlands in June 2022.
•	EIROFORUM event is scheduled in April 2022.
•	A joint workshop with CS3MESH4EOSC is scheduled on 25th January 2022.
•	DESY and EU XFEL user meeting will take place on 25th and 26th January 2022.
•	Jean-Francois is organizing UmbrellaID meeting on 2nd February 2022. 
